Problem Statement:
create a program that will take an imput from the user, use a complex decision construct, 
utilize a loop, utilize functions to organize processing steps, and display an output using 
the users input.

Specialized Problem Statement: 
Create a text adventure program, that will take input from the user, and use that input to make 
decisions that will lead to more prompts and various different displays.

Nouns an Verbs:
Nouns: input, decision, loop, functions, processing steps, output
Verbs:take, utilize loop, process, display.

Specialized Nouns and Verbs:
Nouns:input, decisions, prompts, displays
Verbs:take, make decisions, lead, displays.

Defining diagram:
Inputs: firstInput, OceanInput, stickInput, monkeyInput, catInput 

Processing:

Outputs:

Pseudocode:
TextAdventure ()
	declare variable gameRunning and set to true
	While gameRunning = true
		firstInput prompt for input with (You wake up on a sandy beach. You cant seem to remember anything about who 
you are or what you were doing prior to this moment. You take a look around an notice a vast
 ocean behind you, a forest in front of you, and the beach that seems to go on endlessly. 
What will you do?)
		If firstInput is something like "go for a swim", "go toward the ocean", "wade into the water"
		then display "You hear a beautiful voice beconing you."
			OceanInput Prompt for another input with ("Will you folow the voice?")
			If yes then dispay "You see the head of a beautiful maiden emerbge from the waters 
surface. She slowly drifts toward you. You feel entranced, unable ot move or flee at the panic 
you begin to feel. As she nears you she suddenly dissapears beneath the water. You feel yourself
 being tugged under. Struggling as you might, you cannot break free of her icy grip.
			Display "You are dead" 
			End the loop by setting gameRunning = false
			Else display "You feel an uneasiness wash over you and you turn from the voice,
 going back toward the beach."
		If firstInput is go left, right, or walk along the beach
		then display "You notice a large stick in the sand."
			prompt for stickInput with (will you take it?)
			If yes, display "Just as you pick up the large stick, a monkey emerges from the tree 
line and approaches you.
				prompt for monkeyInput with (Now what?)
				if input Hit monkey, Hit, Throw, Fight
				Then display "The monkey screams an runs away"
				if input give stick, give monkey stick, pet monkey, do nothing
				Display "The monkey seems to take a liking to you. As you continue walking it
 follows you happily."
		 	Else Display "You continue along the beach, walking for what seems like an eternity
When the sun begins to set you notice the light of a fire off in the distance. You pick up the
 pace to investigate. As you near the fire, you see many people stiting around, laughing, drinking
and having a good time. You notice a large ship off in the distance. One of the men exclaims 
"There you are! We thought we'd lost you after last night!" Suddenly memories come flooding back
to you, the merrymaking of last night, rum flowing aplenty, as you and your pirate friends 
celebrate the recent booty plundered. Drunk as you were, you wandered off. Thinking to quench
 your thirst, you decided to climb a coconut tree to score some fresh, ripe coconuts. This was 
not the brightest idea, as you fell and hit your head in the process, blacking out. Reunited 
with your friends, you relay your tale of last nights events and todays events, embelishing 
only slightly. The end.
			End the loop by setting gameRunning = false
		If firstInput is go toward the forest, enter forest, go forward
		then display "You fight your way tooth and nail through the forest brush. Time passes 
and suddenly you hear a low growl coming from above you. Hewart racing you look up, noticing 
a giant black cat with piercing green eyes staring you down licking its lips, perched in the 
tree above you."
			Prompt with "What will you do?"
			If catInput is Scream, Flail about, or throw something
				then Display "The cat springs from its resting place, landing on top of you, 
pinning you down. You fight and struggle but cannot break free from its grasp. All you can 
focus on is its gigantic teeth that are slowly closing in on you, as its oen maw is headed 
strait for your throat. You are dead.
				End the loop by setting gameRunning = false
			if catInput is run, flee 
			display "Your flight response kicks in and you flee back the way you came.
 Your body feels weightless as you run for your life, moviong faster than you ever have before.
 You breka through the line of trees and keep funning ofr what feels like forever. finally you
 feel brave enough to glance behind you, to notice that the cat did not follow you. You slow 
and come to a stop, huffing and puffing to catch your breath. You then take a moment to notice
 your surroundings, spying a group of people in the distance and a large ship floating nearby.
 Walking up to them one of the men exclaims "There you are! We thought we'd lost you after last
 night!" Suddenly memories come flooding back to you, the merrymaking of last night, rum 
flowing aplenty as you and your pirate friends celebrate the recent booty plundered. Drunk as
 you were, you wandered off. Thinking to quench your thirst, you decided to climb a coconut 
tree to score some fresh ripe coconuts. This was not the brightest idea, as you fell and hit
 your head in the process, blacking out. Reunited with your friends, you relay your tale of 
last nights events and todays events, embelishing only slightly. The end.
			End the loop by setting gameRunning = false

Testing:

Test 1
Input: left, yes, pet monkey

Expected Output: You notice a large stick in the sand. Will you take the stick?, Just as you pick up the large stick, a monkey emerges from the tree line and approaches you. What will you do?, 
The monkey seems to take a liking to you. As you continue walking it follows you happily. You've made a new friend.

You continue along the beach, walking for what seems like an eternity. When the sun begins to set you notice the light of a fire off in the distance. You pick up the pace to investigate. As you near the fire, you see many people stiting around, laughing, drinking and having a good time. You notice a large ship off in the distance. One of the men exclaims "There you are! We thought we'd lost you after last night!" Suddenly memories come flooding back to you, the merrymaking of last night, rum flowing aplenty, as you and your pirate friends celebrate the recent booty plundered. Drunk as you were, you wandered off. Thinking to quench your thirst, you decided to climb a coconut tree to score some fresh, ripe coconuts. This was not the brightest idea, as you fell and hit your head in the process, blacking out. Reunited with your friends, you relay your tale of last nights events and todays events, embelishing only slightly. The end.

Actual Output: You notice a large stick in the sand. Will you take the stick?, Just as you pick up the large stick, a monkey emerges from the tree line and approaches you. What will you do?, 
The monkey seems to take a liking to you. As you continue walking it follows you happily. You've made a new friend.

You continue along the beach, walking for what seems like an eternity. When the sun begins to set you notice the light of a fire off in the distance. You pick up the pace to investigate. As you near the fire, you see many people stiting around, laughing, drinking and having a good time. You notice a large ship off in the distance. One of the men exclaims "There you are! We thought we'd lost you after last night!" Suddenly memories come flooding back to you, the merrymaking of last night, rum flowing aplenty, as you and your pirate friends celebrate the recent booty plundered. Drunk as you were, you wandered off. Thinking to quench your thirst, you decided to climb a coconut tree to score some fresh, ripe coconuts. This was not the brightest idea, as you fell and hit your head in the process, blacking out. Reunited with your friends, you relay your tale of last nights events and todays events, embelishing only slightly. The end.

Test 2
Input: right, no

Expected Output: You notice a large stick in the sand. Will you take the stick?,
You continue along the beach, walking for what seems like an eternity. When the sun begins to set you notice the light of a fire off in the distance. You pick up the pace to investigate. As you near the fire, you see many people stiting around, laughing, drinking and having a good time. You notice a large ship off in the distance. One of the men exclaims "There you are! We thought we'd lost you after last night!" Suddenly memories come flooding back to you, the merrymaking of last night, rum flowing aplenty, as you and your pirate friends celebrate the recent booty plundered. Drunk as you were, you wandered off. Thinking to quench your thirst, you decided to climb a coconut tree to score some fresh, ripe coconuts. This was not the brightest idea, as you fell and hit your head in the process, blacking out. Reunited with your friends, you relay your tale of last nights events and todays events, embelishing only slightly. The end.

Actual Output: You notice a large stick in the sand. Will you take the stick?, 
The monkey seems to take a liking to you. As you continue walking it follows you happily. You've made a new friend.

You continue along the beach, walking for what seems like an eternity. When the sun begins to set you notice the light of a fire off in the distance. You pick up the pace to investigate. As you near the fire, you see many people stiting around, laughing, drinking and having a good time. You notice a large ship off in the distance. One of the men exclaims "There you are! We thought we'd lost you after last night!" Suddenly memories come flooding back to you, the merrymaking of last night, rum flowing aplenty, as you and your pirate friends celebrate the recent booty plundered. Drunk as you were, you wandered off. Thinking to quench your thirst, you decided to climb a coconut tree to score some fresh, ripe coconuts. This was not the brightest idea, as you fell and hit your head in the process, blacking out. Reunited with your friends, you relay your tale of last nights events and todays events, embelishing only slightly. The end.

Test 3go 
Input: forward, go forward, flee

Expected Output: Oops, try entering something else! You wake up on a sandy beach. You cant seem to remember anything about who you are or what you were doing prior to this moment. You take a look around an notice a vast ocean behind you, a forest in front of you, and the beach that seems to go on endlessly. What will you do?,
You fight your way tooth and nail through the forest brush. Time passes and suddenly you hear a low growl coming from above you. Hewart racing you look up, noticing a giant black cat with piercing green eyes staring you down licking its lips, perched in the tree above you. What will you do?,
Your flight response kicks in and you flee back the way you came. Your body feels weightless as you run for your life, moviong faster than you ever have before. You breka through the line of trees and keep funning ofr what feels like forever. finally you feel brave enough to glance behind you, to notice that the cat did not follow you. You slow and come to a stop, huffing and puffing to catch your breath. You then take a moment to notice your surroundings, spying a group of people in the distance and a large ship floating nearby. Walking up to them one of the men exclaims "There you are! We thought we'd lost you after last night!" Suddenly memories come flooding back to you, the merrymaking of last night, rum flowing aplenty as you and your pirate friends celebrate the recent booty plundered. Drunk as you were, you wandered off. Thinking to quench your thirst, you decided to climb a coconut tree to score some fresh ripe coconuts. This was not the brightest idea, as you fell and hit your head in the process, blacking out. Reunited with your friends, you relay your tale of last nights events and todays events, embelishing only slightly. The end.

Actual Output: Oops, try entering something else! You wake up on a sandy beach. You cant seem to remember anything about who you are or what you were doing prior to this moment. You take a look around an notice a vast ocean behind you, a forest in front of you, and the beach that seems to go on endlessly. What will you do?,
You fight your way tooth and nail through the forest brush. Time passes and suddenly you hear a low growl coming from above you. Hewart racing you look up, noticing a giant black cat with piercing green eyes staring you down licking its lips, perched in the tree above you. What will you do?,
Your flight response kicks in and you flee back the way you came. Your body feels weightless as you run for your life, moviong faster than you ever have before. You breka through the line of trees and keep funning ofr what feels like forever. finally you feel brave enough to glance behind you, to notice that the cat did not follow you. You slow and come to a stop, huffing and puffing to catch your breath. You then take a moment to notice your surroundings, spying a group of people in the distance and a large ship floating nearby. Walking up to them one of the men exclaims "There you are! We thought we'd lost you after last night!" Suddenly memories come flooding back to you, the merrymaking of last night, rum flowing aplenty as you and your pirate friends celebrate the recent booty plundered. Drunk as you were, you wandered off. Thinking to quench your thirst, you decided to climb a coconut tree to score some fresh ripe coconuts. This was not the brightest idea, as you fell and hit your head in the process, blacking out. Reunited with your friends, you relay your tale of last nights events and todays events, embelishing only slightly. The end.

Test 4
Input: go for a swim, yes

Expected Output: You hear a beautiful voice beconing you. Will you follow the voice? 
You see the head of a beautiful maiden emerbge from the waters surface. She slowly drifts toward you. You feel entranced, unable ot move or flee at the panic you begin to feel. As she nears you she suddenly dissapears beneath the water. You feel yourself being tugged under. Struggling as you might, you cannot break free of her icy grip.
You are Dead.

Actual Output: You hear a beautiful voice beconing you. Will you follow the voice? 
You see the head of a beautiful maiden emerbge from the waters surface. She slowly drifts toward you. You feel entranced, unable ot move or flee at the panic you begin to feel. As she nears you she suddenly dissapears beneath the water. You feel yourself being tugged under. Struggling as you might, you cannot break free of her icy grip.
You are Dead.